docs/key_modules/social_agent.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Social Agent'
description: 'The Social Agent is the main class for creating social agents in the simulation. In this section, we will introduce how to create a `SocialAgent`.'
---

# `SocialAgent` class

A Social Agent in OASIS is an LLM-based social media user, inherited from CAMEL's `ChatAgent`. It can perform actions on social media (e.g., posting), use external tools (such as Google Search), and has features like user information and a memory module.

When initializing a `SocialAgent`, you can configure the following core parameters:

| Parameter            | Type                                                 | Required | Default | Description |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `agent_id`           | `int`                                                | ✔        | -       | The unique ID of the agent, used as the primary key to distinguish different agents. Each `SocialAgent` must have a unique `agent_id`. |
| `user_info`          | `UserInfo`                                           | ✔        | -       | A dataclass containing the agent's user registration info. For more details, see [UserInfo](#UserInfo). |
| `user_info_template` | [`TextPrompt` ](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/prompts.html)                          | ✗        | `None`  | A text template that describes the agent when deciding what action to take. If `None`, a [default prompt template](#default-user-info-template) will be selected based on `recsys_type` in `UserInfo`. |
| `agent_graph`        | [`AgentGraph` ](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org//key_modules/agent_graph)                                        | ✔        | -       | The `AgentGraph` instance that the `SocialAgent` belongs to. |
| `model`              | [`BaseModelBackend`](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/models.html)  or `List[BaseModelBackend]` or `None` | ✗        | `None`  | The llm model(s) to be used for the agent's actions. If `None`, the gpt-4o-mini model will be used. |
| `available_actions`  | [`list[ActionType]`](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/actions) or `None`                         | ✗        | `None`  | List of allowed actions in the social platform. For more details, see [Actions Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/actions). If `None`, all actions are enabled by default. |
| `tools`              | `List[Union[FunctionTool, Callable]]` or `None` | ✗ | `None`  | External tools the agent can use, such as a `get_weather` function, a `Toolkit`, or an `MCPToolkit` from [CAMEL](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/tools.html). If set to `None`, the agent will not be able to use any external tools. |
| `single_iteration`   | `bool`                                               | ✗        | `True`  | Whether the agent performs only a single round of reasoning when taking an LLM action. If `False`, the agent may continue acting based on the outcome of previous actions or tool calls. |

For more details on the `model` and the `tools` parameter, see [Models Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/models) and [Toolkits Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/toolkits).

## `UserInfo` class
 A dataclass containing the agent's user registration info. Fields like `user_name`, `name`, and `description` must not be empty. The `profile` field is a dictionary whose keys must match those specified in `user_info_template`.

 ```python
@dataclass
class UserInfo:
    user_name: str
    name: str
    description: str
    profile: dict[str, Any]  # If user_info_template is provided, the keys must match those in the template.
    recsys_type: RecsysType # Ignored if user_info_template is provided.
```

- Example of a `user_info_template` and corresponding `UserInfo.profile` class:

```python
from camel.prompts import TextPrompt

seller_template = TextPrompt('Your aim is: {aim} Your task is: {task}')

profile = {
    "aim": "Persuade people to buy `GlowPod` lamp.",
    "task": "Using roleplay to tell some story about the product.",
}
```

## Default User Info Template

### Twitter Style Template

```python
def to_twitter_system_message(self) -> str:
    name_string = ""
    description_string = ""
    if self.name is not None:
        name_string = f"Your name is {self.name}."
    if self.profile is None:
        description = name_string
    elif "other_info" not in self.profile:
        description = name_string
    elif "user_profile" in self.profile["other_info"]:
        if self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"] is not None:
            user_profile = self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"]
            description_string = f"Your have profile: {user_profile}."
            description = f"{name_string}\n{description_string}"

    system_content = f"""
# OBJECTIVE
You're a Twitter user, and I'll present you with some posts. After you see the posts, choose some actions from the following functions.

# SELF-DESCRIPTION
Your actions should be consistent with your self-description and personality.
{description}

# RESPONSE METHOD
Please perform actions by tool calling.
"""
    return system_content
```

### Reddit Style Template

```python
def to_reddit_system_message(self) -> str:
    name_string = ""
    description_string = ""
    if self.name is not None:
        name_string = f"Your name is {self.name}."
    if self.profile is None:
        description = name_string
    elif "other_info" not in self.profile:
        description = name_string
    elif "user_profile" in self.profile["other_info"]:
        if self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"] is not None:
            user_profile = self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"]
            description_string = f"Your have profile: {user_profile}."
            description = f"{name_string}\n{description_string}"
            print(self.profile['other_info'])
            description += (
                f"You are a {self.profile['other_info']['gender']}, "
                f"{self.profile['other_info']['age']} years old, with an MBTI "
                f"personality type of {self.profile['other_info']['mbti']} from "
                f"{self.profile['other_info']['country']}.")

    system_content = f"""
# OBJECTIVE
You're a Reddit user, and I'll present you with some tweets. After you see the tweets, choose some actions from the following functions.

# SELF-DESCRIPTION
Your actions should be consistent with your self-description and personality.
{description}

# RESPONSE METHOD
Please perform actions by tool calling.
"""
    return system_content
```

Commit message:

add interview_record bool args and add more description of interview in the doc

docs/key_modules/social_agent.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Social Agent'
description: 'The Social Agent is the main class for creating social agents in the simulation. In this section, we will introduce how to create a `SocialAgent`.'
---

# `SocialAgent` class

A Social Agent in OASIS is an LLM-based social media user, inherited from CAMEL's `ChatAgent`. It can perform actions on social media (e.g., posting), use external tools (such as Google Search), and has features like user information and a memory module.

When initializing a `SocialAgent`, you can configure the following core parameters:

| Parameter            | Type                                                 | Required | Default | Description |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `agent_id`           | `int`                                                | ✔        | -       | The unique ID of the agent, used as the primary key to distinguish different agents. Each `SocialAgent` must have a unique `agent_id`. |
| `user_info`          | `UserInfo`                                           | ✔        | -       | A dataclass containing the agent's user registration info. For more details, see [UserInfo](#UserInfo). |
| `user_info_template` | [`TextPrompt` ](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/prompts.html)                          | ✗        | `None`  | A text template that describes the agent when deciding what action to take. If `None`, a [default prompt template](#default-user-info-template) will be selected based on `recsys_type` in `UserInfo`. |
| `agent_graph`        | [`AgentGraph` ](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org//key_modules/agent_graph)                                        | ✔        | -       | The `AgentGraph` instance that the `SocialAgent` belongs to. |
| `model`              | [`BaseModelBackend`](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/models.html)  or `List[BaseModelBackend]` or `None` | ✗        | `None`  | The llm model(s) to be used for the agent's actions. If `None`, the gpt-4o-mini model will be used. |
| `available_actions`  | [`list[ActionType]`](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/actions) or `None`                         | ✗        | `None`  | List of allowed actions in the social platform. For more details, see [Actions Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/actions). If `None`, all actions are enabled by default. |
| `tools`              | `List[Union[FunctionTool, Callable]]` or `None` | ✗ | `None`  | External tools the agent can use, such as a `get_weather` function, a `Toolkit`, or an `MCPToolkit` from [CAMEL](https://docs.camel-ai.org/key_modules/tools.html). If set to `None`, the agent will not be able to use any external tools. |
| `single_iteration`   | `bool`                                               | ✗        | `True`  | Whether the agent performs only a single round of reasoning when taking an LLM action. If `False`, the agent may continue acting based on the outcome of previous actions or tool calls. |
| `interview_record`   | `bool`                                               | ✗        | `False`  | Whether to record the interview prompt and result in the agent's memory. |

For more details on the `model` and the `tools` parameter, see [Models Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/models) and [Toolkits Module](https://docs.oasis.camel-ai.org/key_modules/toolkits).

## `UserInfo` class
 A dataclass containing the agent's user registration info. Fields like `user_name`, `name`, and `description` must not be empty. The `profile` field is a dictionary whose keys must match those specified in `user_info_template`.

 ```python
@dataclass
class UserInfo:
    user_name: str
    name: str
    description: str
    profile: dict[str, Any]  # If user_info_template is provided, the keys must match those in the template.
    recsys_type: RecsysType # Ignored if user_info_template is provided.
```

- Example of a `user_info_template` and corresponding `UserInfo.profile` class:

```python
from camel.prompts import TextPrompt

seller_template = TextPrompt('Your aim is: {aim} Your task is: {task}')

profile = {
    "aim": "Persuade people to buy `GlowPod` lamp.",
    "task": "Using roleplay to tell some story about the product.",
}
```

## Default User Info Template

### Twitter Style Template

```python
def to_twitter_system_message(self) -> str:
    name_string = ""
    description_string = ""
    if self.name is not None:
        name_string = f"Your name is {self.name}."
    if self.profile is None:
        description = name_string
    elif "other_info" not in self.profile:
        description = name_string
    elif "user_profile" in self.profile["other_info"]:
        if self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"] is not None:
            user_profile = self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"]
            description_string = f"Your have profile: {user_profile}."
            description = f"{name_string}\n{description_string}"

    system_content = f"""
# OBJECTIVE
You're a Twitter user, and I'll present you with some posts. After you see the posts, choose some actions from the following functions.

# SELF-DESCRIPTION
Your actions should be consistent with your self-description and personality.
{description}

# RESPONSE METHOD
Please perform actions by tool calling.
"""
    return system_content
```

### Reddit Style Template

```python
def to_reddit_system_message(self) -> str:
    name_string = ""
    description_string = ""
    if self.name is not None:
        name_string = f"Your name is {self.name}."
    if self.profile is None:
        description = name_string
    elif "other_info" not in self.profile:
        description = name_string
    elif "user_profile" in self.profile["other_info"]:
        if self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"] is not None:
            user_profile = self.profile["other_info"]["user_profile"]
            description_string = f"Your have profile: {user_profile}."
            description = f"{name_string}\n{description_string}"
            print(self.profile['other_info'])
            description += (
                f"You are a {self.profile['other_info']['gender']}, "
                f"{self.profile['other_info']['age']} years old, with an MBTI "
                f"personality type of {self.profile['other_info']['mbti']} from "
                f"{self.profile['other_info']['country']}.")

    system_content = f"""
# OBJECTIVE
You're a Reddit user, and I'll present you with some tweets. After you see the tweets, choose some actions from the following functions.

# SELF-DESCRIPTION
Your actions should be consistent with your self-description and personality.
{description}

# RESPONSE METHOD
Please perform actions by tool calling.
"""
    return system_content
```
